docs/jotai/integrations/valtio.mdx, before:

---
title: Valtio
description: This doc describes `jotai/valtio` bundle.
nav: 4.5
---

Jotai's state resides in React, but sometimes it would be nice
to interact with the world outside React.

Valtio provides a proxy interface that can be used to store some values
and sync with atoms in Jotai.

This only uses the vanilla api of valtio.

## Install

You have to install `valtio` to access this bundle and its functions.

```
npm install valtio
# or
yarn add valtio
```

## atomWithProxy

`atomWithProxy` creates a new atom with valtio proxy.
It's two-way binding and you can change the value from both ends.

```js
import { useAtom } from 'jotai'
import { atomWithProxy } from 'jotai/valtio'
import { proxy } from 'valtio/vanilla'

const proxyState = proxy({ count: 0 })
const stateAtom = atomWithProxy(proxyState)
const Counter: React.FC = () => {
  const [state, setState] = useAtom(stateAtom)

  return (
    <>
      count: {state.count}
      <button onClick={() => setState((prev) => ({ ...prev, count: prev.count + 1 }))}>
        button
      </button>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Examples

<Codesandbox id="f5u4l" />

Commit message:

[Jotai] atomWithProxy sync option docs
For: https://github.com/pmndrs/jotai/pull/752

docs/jotai/integrations/valtio.mdx, after:

---
title: Valtio
description: This doc describes `jotai/valtio` bundle.
nav: 4.5
---

Jotai's state resides in React, but sometimes it would be nice
to interact with the world outside React.

Valtio provides a proxy interface that can be used to store some values
and sync with atoms in Jotai.

This only uses the vanilla api of valtio.

## Install

You have to install `valtio` to access this bundle and its functions.

```
npm install valtio
# or
yarn add valtio
```

## atomWithProxy

`atomWithProxy` creates a new atom with valtio proxy.
It's two-way binding and you can change the value from both ends.

```js
import { useAtom } from 'jotai'
import { atomWithProxy } from 'jotai/valtio'
import { proxy } from 'valtio/vanilla'

const proxyState = proxy({ count: 0 })
const stateAtom = atomWithProxy(proxyState)
const Counter: React.FC = () => {
  const [state, setState] = useAtom(stateAtom)

  return (
    <>
      count: {state.count}
      <button onClick={() => setState((prev) => ({ ...prev, count: prev.count + 1 }))}>
        button
      </button>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Parameters

```
atomWithProxy(proxyObject, options?)
```

**proxyObject** (required): the Valtio proxy object you want to derive the atom from

**options.sync** (optional): makes the atom update synchronously instead of waiting for batched updates, similar to [`valtio/useSnapshot`](https://github.com/pmndrs/valtio#update-synchronously). This will result in more renders, but have more guarantees that it syncs with other Jotai atoms.

```
atomWithProxy(proxyObject, { sync: true })
```

You may 

### Examples

<Codesandbox id="f5u4l" />
