docs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to install react-three-fiber
nav: 1
---

```bash
npm install three @react-three/fiber
```

> Fiber is compatible with React v16.8+ and works with ReactDOM and React Native.

Getting started with React Three Fiber is not nearly has hard as you might have thought, but various frameworks may require particular attention.
We've put together guides for getting started with each popular framework:

- Create React App
- Next.js
<!-- - Gatsby -->

If you just want to give it a try, fork this [example on codesandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/rrppl0y8l4?file=/src/App.js)!

## Create React App

`create-react-app` will work out of the box, nothing special here!

## Next.js

It should work out of the box but you will encounter untranspiled add-ons in the three.js ecosystem, in that case you can install the `next-transpile-modules` module:

```bash
npm install next-transpile-modules --save-dev
```

Then, add this to your `next.config.js`

```js
const withTM = require('next-transpile-modules')(['three'])
module.exports = withTM()
```

Make sure to check out our [official next.js starter](https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-next), too!

## Without build tools

You can use React Three Fiber with browser-ready ES Modules from [skypack.dev](https://skypack.dev) and a JSX-like syntax powered by [htm](https://github.com/developit/htm).

```jsx
import ReactDOM from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react-dom'
import React, { useRef, useState } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react'
import { Canvas, useFrame } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/@react-three/fiber'
import htm from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/htm'

const html = htm.bind(React.createElement)
ReactDOM.render(html`<${Canvas}>...<//>`, document.getElementById('root'))
```

<details>
<summary>Full example</summary>

```jsx
import ReactDOM from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react-dom'
import React, { useRef, useState } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react'
import { Canvas, useFrame } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/@react-three/fiber'
import htm from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/htm'

const html = htm.bind(React.createElement)

function Box(props) {
  const mesh = useRef()
  const [hovered, setHover] = useState(false)
  const [active, setActive] = useState(false)
  useFrame(() => (mesh.current.rotation.x = mesh.current.rotation.y += 0.01))
  return html` <mesh
    ...${props}
    ref=${mesh}
    scale=${active ? 1.5 : 1}
    onClick=${() => setActive(!active)}
    onPointerOver=${() => setHover(true)}
    onPointerOut=${() => setHover(false)}
  >
    <boxGeometry args=${[1, 1, 1]} />
    <meshStandardMaterial color=${hovered ? 'hotpink' : 'orange'} />
  </mesh>`
}

ReactDOM.render(
  html` <${Canvas}>
    <ambientLight />
    <pointLight position=${[10, 10, 10]} />
    <${Box} position=${[-1.2, 0, 0]} />
    <${Box} position=${[1.2, 0, 0]} />
  <//>`,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

</details>

Commit message:

feat(fiber): add native docs

docs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to install react-three-fiber
nav: 1
---

```bash
npm install three @react-three/fiber
```

> Fiber is compatible with React v16.8+ and works with ReactDOM and React Native.

Getting started with React Three Fiber is not nearly has hard as you might have thought, but various frameworks may require particular attention.
We've put together guides for getting started with each popular framework:

- Create React App
- Next.js
- Expo
<!-- - Gatsby -->

If you just want to give it a try, fork this [example on codesandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/rrppl0y8l4?file=/src/App.js)!

## Create React App

`create-react-app` will work out of the box, nothing special here!

## Next.js

It should work out of the box but you will encounter untranspiled add-ons in the three.js ecosystem, in that case you can install the `next-transpile-modules` module:

```bash
npm install next-transpile-modules --save-dev
```

Then, add this to your `next.config.js`

```js
const withTM = require('next-transpile-modules')(['three'])
module.exports = withTM()
```

Make sure to check out our [official next.js starter](https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-next), too!

## Expo & React Native

This example uses `expo-cli` for the sake of simplicity, but you can use your own barebones setup if you wish.

```bash
# Install expo-cli, this will create our app
npm install expo-cli -g

# Create app and cd into it
expo init my-app
cd my-app

# Install dependencies
npm install three @react-three/fiber

# Start
expo start
```

Just import from native targets and that's it!

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber/native'
import { useGLTF } from '@react-three/drei/native'
```

## Without build tools

You can use React Three Fiber with browser-ready ES Modules from [skypack.dev](https://skypack.dev) and a JSX-like syntax powered by [htm](https://github.com/developit/htm).

```jsx
import ReactDOM from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react-dom'
import React, { useRef, useState } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react'
import { Canvas, useFrame } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/@react-three/fiber'
import htm from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/htm'

const html = htm.bind(React.createElement)
ReactDOM.render(html`<${Canvas}>...<//>`, document.getElementById('root'))
```

<details>
<summary>Full example</summary>

```jsx
import ReactDOM from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react-dom'
import React, { useRef, useState } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/react'
import { Canvas, useFrame } from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/@react-three/fiber'
import htm from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/htm'

const html = htm.bind(React.createElement)

function Box(props) {
  const mesh = useRef()
  const [hovered, setHover] = useState(false)
  const [active, setActive] = useState(false)
  useFrame(() => (mesh.current.rotation.x = mesh.current.rotation.y += 0.01))
  return html` <mesh
    ...${props}
    ref=${mesh}
    scale=${active ? 1.5 : 1}
    onClick=${() => setActive(!active)}
    onPointerOver=${() => setHover(true)}
    onPointerOut=${() => setHover(false)}
  >
    <boxGeometry args=${[1, 1, 1]} />
    <meshStandardMaterial color=${hovered ? 'hotpink' : 'orange'} />
  </mesh>`
}

ReactDOM.render(
  html` <${Canvas}>
    <ambientLight />
    <pointLight position=${[10, 10, 10]} />
    <${Box} position=${[-1.2, 0, 0]} />
    <${Box} position=${[1.2, 0, 0]} />
  <//>`,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

</details>
