docs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/your-first-scene.mdx, before:

---
title: Your first scene
description: This guide will help you setup your first React Three Fiber scene and introduce you to its core concepts.
nav: 2
---

This tutorial will assume some React knowledge.

## Setting up the Canvas

We'll start by importing the `<Canvas />` component from `@react-three/fiber` and putting it in our React tree:

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas />
    </div>
  )
}
```

The Canvas component does some important setup work behind the scenes:

- It sets up a **Scene** and a **Camera**, the basic building blocks necessary for rendering
- It automatically handles resizing
- It renders our scene every frame

<Hint>
  Note that the Canvas will be resized to fit the parent div, so you can control how big it is by
  just changing the `width` and `height` of `#canvas-container` in your css.
</Hint>

To actually _render_ something in our scene, we'll add a `mesh` component. In Fiber, every THREE.js object has an equivalent component:

```js
const myMesh = new THREE.Mesh()
// is equivalent to
<mesh />
```

## Adding a Mesh Component

A [`Mesh`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/objects/Mesh) is a basic object in THREE.js, and it's used to hold the polygons and the material that are needed to represent the object in 3D space.
We'll create a new mesh using a **BoxGeometry** component for the geometry and a **MeshPhongMaterial** component for the material.

To actually add these objects to our scene, we mount them inside the `<Canvas />` component.

<Hint>
  Note that we don't need to import anything, THREE objects will be treated as native JSX elements,
  just like you can just write &lt;div /&gt; or &lt;span /&gt; in regular React. The general rule is
  that Fiber components are available under the camel-case version of their name in THREE.js.
</Hint>

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas>
        <mesh>
          <boxGeometry />
          <meshPhongMaterial />
        </mesh>
      </Canvas>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Let's pause for a moment to understand exactly what is happening here. The code we just wrote is the equivalent to this THREE.js code:

```jsx
const scene = new THREE.Scene()
const camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(75, width / height, 0.1, 1000)

const renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer()
renderer.setSize(width, height)
document.querySelector('#canvas-container').appendChild(renderer.domElement)

const mesh = new THREE.Mesh()
mesh.geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry()
mesh.material = new THREE.MeshPhongMaterial()

scene.add(mesh)

function animate() {
  requestAnimationFrame(animate)
  renderer.render(scene, camera)
}

animate()
```

When you mount a `mesh` component, Fiber is creating a new `THREE.Mesh` object, and the same is done for geometry and material.
Then, geometry and material are _attached_ to their parent.

### Constructor arguments

If we consult the [documentation for THREE's `BoxGeometry`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/BoxGeometry) we see can can optionally pass three arguments for: width, length and depth:

```js
const geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(2, 2, 2)
```

In order to do this in Fiber we use the `args` prop, which _always_ takes an array whose items represent constructor argument.

```jsx
<boxGeometry args={[2, 2, 2]} />
```

<Hint>Note that every time you change these, the object must be re-constructed!</Hint>

## Adding lights

Next, we will add some lights to our scene, by putting these components as children of `<Canvas />`

```jsx
<Canvas>
  ...
  <ambientLight intensity={0.1} />
  <directionalLight color="red" position={[0, 0, 5]} />
</Canvas>
```

### Props

This introduces us to the last fundamental concept of Fiber, how React `props` work on THREE objects. When you set any prop on a Fiber component, it will set the property of the same name on the THREE.js object.

Let's focus on our `ambientLight`, whose [documentation](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/lights/AmbientLight) tells us that we can optionally construct it with a color, but can also receive props.

```jsx
// we are using a THREE.js AmbientLight
<ambientLight
  // we are setting the lights intensity to 0.1
  intensity={0.1}
/>
```

Which is the equivalent to:

```jsx
const light = new THREE.AmbientLight()
light.intensity = 0.1
```

### Shortcuts

There are a few shortcuts for _classes_ that have a `.set()` method (colors, vectors, ect).

```jsx
const light = new THREE.DirectionalLight()
light.position.set(0, 0, 5)
light.color.set('red')
```

Which is the same as the following in JSX:

```jsx
<directionalLight
  // we are setting the position
  position={[0, 0, 5]}
  // we are setting the color
  color="red"
/>
```

Please refer to the API for [a deeper explanation](/react-three-fiber/API/objects).

## The result

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas>
        <ambientLight intensity={0.1} />
        <directionalLight color="red" position={[0, 0, 5]} />
        <mesh>
          <boxGeometry />
          <meshPhongMaterial />
        </mesh>
      </Canvas>
    </div>
  )
}
```

<Codesandbox id="12q81" />

## Exercise

- try different materials, like [`<meshNormalMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshNormalMaterial) or [`<meshBasicMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshBasicMaterial)
- try different geometries, like [`<sphereGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/SphereGeometry) or [`<octahedronGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/OctahedronGeometry)
- try changing the `position` on our `mesh` component, by setting the prop with the same name
- try extracting our mesh to a new component

<!--
Every scene starts with the `<Canvas />` component, which we can import from `react-three-fiber`:


In the example above, we can start getting familiar with some of the **basic concepts** of React Three Fiber:

1. We set a **camera** prop for the `<Canvas />` component. This is the initial position of Fiber's default **PerspectiveCamera** - which would otherwise be at `[0, 0, 5]`

2. We added a `<color />` component with `args` and `attach` props. This means that a new `THREE.Color` object will be created and set as the `background` property of the main `scene`.

```jsx
const color = new THREE.Color('black') // args is the arguments array, passed to the constructor
scene.background = color // set the property on a three.js object parent[attach] = object
```

3. We added a `<mesh />` component with a `<boxGeometry />` child. Any component with `geometry` or `material` in its name, will automatically attach to the corresponding property of its parent:

```js
const myMesh = new THREE.Mesh() // <mesh />
const myGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry() // <boxGeometry />

myMesh.geometry = myGeometry // set the `geometry` property on our mesh
```

The `Canvas` will fill its parent element (try changing the width and height of `.App` in
`src/styles.css`)

**React Three Fiber can render any object from three.js**, using these simple rules:

- components will be camel-case, so `THREE.Mesh` will be `<mesh />` and `THREE.BoxGeometry` will be `<boxGeometry />`
- constructor arguments will be passed via the `args` prop, so `new THREE.Color("red")` will become `<color args={["red"]} />`

This gives you an initial idea of how React Three Fiber will work, but let's dive deeper!

## Meshes, Geometries and Materials

In the previous example, we created a `<mesh />` component with a `<boxGeometry />` child.

This is equivalent to creating those objects in three.js, putting them together and adding them to the scene:

```js
const mesh = new THREE.Mesh()
const geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry()

mesh.geometry = geometry
scene.add(mesh)
```

We can add materials in the same way, let's say we want to use [`THREE.MeshNormalMaterial`](), we will have to use a camel-case version of the name, in this case `<meshPhysicalMaterial />`:

<Codesandbox id="cvxpd" />

**Exercise:**

- try different materials, like [`<meshPhongMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshPhongMaterial) or [`<meshBasicMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshBasicMaterial)
- try different geometries, like [`<sphereGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/SphereGeometry) or [`<octahedronGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/OctahedronGeometry)

## Loading Textures

We will now add a simple [`texture`](https://threejs.org/docs/index.html#api/en/textures/Texture) to our box, to make it look less boring!

This example will introduce you to the concept of three's **Loaders**, Fiber's [**useLoader**](/api/useloader) hook and a sprinkle of React's **Suspense**.

<Codesandbox id="xxrlt" />

Let's take a closer look:

- we moved our box _mesh_ to its own component, since **React Three Fiber Hooks** can only be used inside `<Canvas />` children.
- we imported the `useLoader` hook from Fiber.
  _useLoader_ expects at least two arguments, the first being a three.js `Loader` constructor, and the second being the url of the resource you want to load
  ```jsx
  useLoader(THREE.TextureLoader, url)
  ```
- we wrapped our `<MyBox />` component with a React Suspense block.

  ```jsx
  <React.Suspense fallback={null}>
    <MyBox />
  </React.Suspense>
  ```

  By doing this, we tell React that our component should not be rendered until our texture is finished loading, and that instead we want to render whatever element is passed to `fallback`.
  We will be just using `null` for now, but we will build something nicer later!

  <Callout>
    React Suspense is a big topic, we will get back to it later, but if you want to learn more, you
    should read this page.
  </Callout>

- Finally, we assign our newly loaded texture to the `map` property of `MeshBasicMaterial`

**Exercise:**

- try scaling the texture and changing its wrapping modes:

```jsx
// texture is scaled down to repeat twice
myTexture.repeat.set(2, 2)
// texture will now repeat both horizontally and vertically
myTexture.wrapS = myTexture.wrapT = THREE.RepeatWrapping
```

You can just add these lines right after assigning `myTexture` (line 10).

We can also simplify our texture loading by using drei's
[`useTexture`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei#usetexture)

## Loading 3D Models

Boxes are boring, we all know that. Let's load a `gltf` file, and get introduced to the React Three Fiber ecosystem:

We will add a new dependency to our project, [`@react-three/drei`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei).
Drei is a collection of useful helpers and abstractions for Fiber, and we will use a few of its components to improve our example.

<Codesandbox id="kmdi5" />

- we put our files in `public/model`, so that our resource will be served by the web server
- we load our model with drei's [`useGLTF`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei#usetexture). Here's what's happening, in detail:
  - Suspense is triggered by `useGLTF`, so our component will not render until it's done loading
  - The `.gltf` file is fetched
  - All the related files (binaries and images) are fetched
  - Suspense is resolved and our component can now finally render
- we destructure nodes (the model's objects) and materials and assign them to a mesh's geometry and material

BONUS: we can add [OrbitControls](https://threejs.org/docs/index.html#examples/en/controls/OrbitControls)
by using drei's `<OrbitControls />` component - try dragging and scrolling in the scene

Phew, that's a lot to unpack. We will make this process easier later, when we'll introduce the [**gltfjsx**](https://github.com/pmndrs/gltfjsx) utility.

**Exercise:**

- try console logging the result of `useGLTF`, to see just what's returned from the hook
- try to load a `.glb` file - you can find some free-to-use files here https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/

## Moving to components

We will now refactor our previous example to better use React's strong suite, components!

<Codesandbox id="wudry" />

In the example, we created a new `MyBox` component that will render a new `mesh`, and we reuse it twice, with different `position` and `color` props. -->

Commit message:

Fix typos and formatting, consisten naming of three.js

docs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/your-first-scene.mdx, after:

---
title: Your first scene
description: This guide will help you setup your first React Three Fiber scene and introduce you to its core concepts.
nav: 2
---

This tutorial will assume some React knowledge.

## Setting up the Canvas

We'll start by importing the `<Canvas />` component from `@react-three/fiber` and putting it in our React tree:

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas />
    </div>
  )
}
```

The Canvas component does some important setup work behind the scenes:

- It sets up a **Scene** and a **Camera**, the basic building blocks necessary for rendering
- It automatically handles resizing
- It renders our scene every frame

<Hint>
  Note that the Canvas will be resized to fit the parent div, so you can control how big it is by
  just changing the `width` and `height` of `#canvas-container` in your css.
</Hint>

To actually _render_ something in our scene, we'll add a `mesh` component. In Fiber, every three.js object has an equivalent component:

```js
const myMesh = new THREE.Mesh()
// is equivalent to
<mesh />
```

## Adding a Mesh Component

A [`Mesh`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/objects/Mesh) is a basic object in three.js, and it's used to hold the polygons and the material that are needed to represent the object in 3D space.
We'll create a new mesh using a **BoxGeometry** component for the geometry and a **MeshPhongMaterial** component for the material.

To actually add these objects to our scene, we mount them inside the `<Canvas />` component.

<Hint>
  Note that we don't need to import anything, THREE objects will be treated as native JSX elements,
  just like you can just write &lt;div /&gt; or &lt;span /&gt; in regular React. The general rule is
  that Fiber components are available under the camel-case version of their name in three.js.
</Hint>

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas>
        <mesh>
          <boxGeometry />
          <meshPhongMaterial />
        </mesh>
      </Canvas>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Let's pause for a moment to understand exactly what is happening here. The code we just wrote is the equivalent to this three.js code:

```jsx
const scene = new THREE.Scene()
const camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(75, width / height, 0.1, 1000)

const renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer()
renderer.setSize(width, height)
document.querySelector('#canvas-container').appendChild(renderer.domElement)

const mesh = new THREE.Mesh()
mesh.geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry()
mesh.material = new THREE.MeshPhongMaterial()

scene.add(mesh)

function animate() {
  requestAnimationFrame(animate)
  renderer.render(scene, camera)
}

animate()
```

When you mount a `mesh` component, Fiber is creating a new `THREE.Mesh` object, and the same is done for geometry and material.
Then, geometry and material are _attached_ to their parent.

### Constructor arguments

If we consult the [documentation for THREE's `BoxGeometry`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/BoxGeometry) we see can can optionally pass three arguments for: width, length and depth:

```js
const geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(2, 2, 2)
```

In order to do this in Fiber we use the `args` prop, which _always_ takes an array whose items represent constructor argument.

```jsx
<boxGeometry args={[2, 2, 2]} />
```

<Hint>Note that every time you change these, the object must be re-constructed!</Hint>

## Adding lights

Next, we will add some lights to our scene, by putting these components as children of `<Canvas />`

```jsx
<Canvas>
  ...
  <ambientLight intensity={0.1} />
  <directionalLight color="red" position={[0, 0, 5]} />
</Canvas>
```

### Props

This introduces us to the last fundamental concept of Fiber, how React `props` work on THREE objects. When you set any prop on a Fiber component, it will set the property of the same name on the three.js object.

Let's focus on our `ambientLight`, whose [documentation](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/lights/AmbientLight) tells us that we can optionally construct it with a color, but can also receive props.

```jsx
// we are using a THREE.js AmbientLight
<ambientLight
  // we are setting the lights intensity to 0.1
  intensity={0.1}
/>
```

Which is the equivalent to:

```jsx
const light = new THREE.AmbientLight()
light.intensity = 0.1
```

### Shortcuts

There are a few shortcuts for _classes_ that have a `.set()` method (colors, vectors, ect).

```jsx
const light = new THREE.DirectionalLight()
light.position.set(0, 0, 5)
light.color.set('red')
```

Which is the same as the following in JSX:

```jsx
<directionalLight
  // we are setting the position
  position={[0, 0, 5]}
  // we are setting the color
  color="red"
/>
```

Please refer to the API for [a deeper explanation](/react-three-fiber/API/objects).

## The result

```jsx
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div id="canvas-container">
      <Canvas>
        <ambientLight intensity={0.1} />
        <directionalLight color="red" position={[0, 0, 5]} />
        <mesh>
          <boxGeometry />
          <meshPhongMaterial />
        </mesh>
      </Canvas>
    </div>
  )
}
```

<Codesandbox id="12q81" />

## Exercise

- try different materials, like [`<meshNormalMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshNormalMaterial) or [`<meshBasicMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshBasicMaterial)
- try different geometries, like [`<sphereGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/SphereGeometry) or [`<octahedronGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/OctahedronGeometry)
- try changing the `position` on our `mesh` component, by setting the prop with the same name
- try extracting our mesh to a new component

<!--
Every scene starts with the `<Canvas />` component, which we can import from `react-three-fiber`:


In the example above, we can start getting familiar with some of the **basic concepts** of React Three Fiber:

1. We set a **camera** prop for the `<Canvas />` component. This is the initial position of Fiber's default **PerspectiveCamera** - which would otherwise be at `[0, 0, 5]`

2. We added a `<color />` component with `args` and `attach` props. This means that a new `THREE.Color` object will be created and set as the `background` property of the main `scene`.

```jsx
const color = new THREE.Color('black') // args is the arguments array, passed to the constructor
scene.background = color // set the property on a three.js object parent[attach] = object
```

3. We added a `<mesh />` component with a `<boxGeometry />` child. Any component with `geometry` or `material` in its name, will automatically attach to the corresponding property of its parent:

```js
const myMesh = new THREE.Mesh() // <mesh />
const myGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry() // <boxGeometry />

myMesh.geometry = myGeometry // set the `geometry` property on our mesh
```

The `Canvas` will fill its parent element (try changing the width and height of `.App` in
`src/styles.css`)

**React Three Fiber can render any object from three.js**, using these simple rules:

- components will be camel-case, so `THREE.Mesh` will be `<mesh />` and `THREE.BoxGeometry` will be `<boxGeometry />`
- constructor arguments will be passed via the `args` prop, so `new THREE.Color("red")` will become `<color args={["red"]} />`

This gives you an initial idea of how React Three Fiber will work, but let's dive deeper!

## Meshes, Geometries and Materials

In the previous example, we created a `<mesh />` component with a `<boxGeometry />` child.

This is equivalent to creating those objects in three.js, putting them together and adding them to the scene:

```js
const mesh = new THREE.Mesh()
const geometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry()

mesh.geometry = geometry
scene.add(mesh)
```

We can add materials in the same way, let's say we want to use [`THREE.MeshNormalMaterial`](), we will have to use a camel-case version of the name, in this case `<meshPhysicalMaterial />`:

<Codesandbox id="cvxpd" />

**Exercise:**

- try different materials, like [`<meshPhongMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshPhongMaterial) or [`<meshBasicMaterial />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/materials/MeshBasicMaterial)
- try different geometries, like [`<sphereGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/SphereGeometry) or [`<octahedronGeometry />`](https://threejs.org/docs/#api/en/geometries/OctahedronGeometry)

## Loading Textures

We will now add a simple [`texture`](https://threejs.org/docs/index.html#api/en/textures/Texture) to our box, to make it look less boring!

This example will introduce you to the concept of three's **Loaders**, Fiber's [**useLoader**](/api/useloader) hook and a sprinkle of React's **Suspense**.

<Codesandbox id="xxrlt" />

Let's take a closer look:

- we moved our box _mesh_ to its own component, since **React Three Fiber Hooks** can only be used inside `<Canvas />` children.
- we imported the `useLoader` hook from Fiber.
  _useLoader_ expects at least two arguments, the first being a three.js `Loader` constructor, and the second being the url of the resource you want to load
  ```jsx
  useLoader(THREE.TextureLoader, url)
  ```
- we wrapped our `<MyBox />` component with a React Suspense block.

  ```jsx
  <React.Suspense fallback={null}>
    <MyBox />
  </React.Suspense>
  ```

  By doing this, we tell React that our component should not be rendered until our texture is finished loading, and that instead we want to render whatever element is passed to `fallback`.
  We will be just using `null` for now, but we will build something nicer later!

  <Callout>
    React Suspense is a big topic, we will get back to it later, but if you want to learn more, you
    should read this page.
  </Callout>

- Finally, we assign our newly loaded texture to the `map` property of `MeshBasicMaterial`

**Exercise:**

- try scaling the texture and changing its wrapping modes:

```jsx
// texture is scaled down to repeat twice
myTexture.repeat.set(2, 2)
// texture will now repeat both horizontally and vertically
myTexture.wrapS = myTexture.wrapT = THREE.RepeatWrapping
```

You can just add these lines right after assigning `myTexture` (line 10).

We can also simplify our texture loading by using drei's
[`useTexture`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei#usetexture)

## Loading 3D Models

Boxes are boring, we all know that. Let's load a `gltf` file, and get introduced to the React Three Fiber ecosystem:

We will add a new dependency to our project, [`@react-three/drei`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei).
Drei is a collection of useful helpers and abstractions for Fiber, and we will use a few of its components to improve our example.

<Codesandbox id="kmdi5" />

- we put our files in `public/model`, so that our resource will be served by the web server
- we load our model with drei's [`useGLTF`](https://github.com/pmndrs/drei#usetexture). Here's what's happening, in detail:
  - Suspense is triggered by `useGLTF`, so our component will not render until it's done loading
  - The `.gltf` file is fetched
  - All the related files (binaries and images) are fetched
  - Suspense is resolved and our component can now finally render
- we destructure nodes (the model's objects) and materials and assign them to a mesh's geometry and material

BONUS: we can add [OrbitControls](https://threejs.org/docs/index.html#examples/en/controls/OrbitControls)
by using drei's `<OrbitControls />` component - try dragging and scrolling in the scene

Phew, that's a lot to unpack. We will make this process easier later, when we'll introduce the [**gltfjsx**](https://github.com/pmndrs/gltfjsx) utility.

**Exercise:**

- try console logging the result of `useGLTF`, to see just what's returned from the hook
- try to load a `.glb` file - you can find some free-to-use files here https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/

## Moving to components

We will now refactor our previous example to better use React's strong suite, components!

<Codesandbox id="wudry" />

In the example, we created a new `MyBox` component that will render a new `mesh`, and we reuse it twice, with different `position` and `color` props. -->
