docs/react-three-fiber/API/canvas.mdx, before:

---
title: Canvas
description: 'The Canvas object is your portal into three.js.'
nav: 4
---

The `Canvas` object is where you start to define your React Three Fiber Scene.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

const App = () => (
  <Canvas>
    <pointLight position={[10, 10, 10]} />
    <mesh>
      <sphereBufferGeometry />
      <meshStandardMaterial color="hotpink" />
    </mesh>
  </Canvas>
)
```

The props available for the canvas are:

| Prop            | Description                                                                                                                                       | Default                                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| children        | three.js JSX elements or regular components                                                                                                       |                                                          |
| gl              | Props that go into the default renderer, or your own renderer. Also accepts a synchronous callback like `gl={canvas => new Renderer({ canvas })}` | `{}`                                                     |
| camera          | Props that go into the default camera, or your own `THREE.Camera`                                                                                 | `{ fov: 75, near: 0.1, far: 1000, position: [0, 0, 5] }` |
| shadows         | Props that go into `gl.shadowMap`, can also be set true for `PCFsoft`                                                                             | `false`                                                  |
| raycaster       | Props that go into the default raycaster                                                                                                          | `{}`                                                     |
| vr              | Switches renderer to VR mode, then uses `gl.setAnimationLoop`                                                                                     | `false`                                                  |
| mode            | React mode: legacy, blocking, concurrent                                                                                                          | `blocking`                                               |
| frameloop       | Render mode: always, demand, never                                                                                                                | `always`                                                 |
| resize          | Resize config, see react-use-measure's options                                                                                                    | `{ scroll: true, debounce: { scroll: 50, resize: 0 } }`  |
| orthographic    | Creates an orthographic camera                                                                                                                    | `false`                                                  |
| dpr             | Pixel-ratio, use `window.devicePixelRatio`, or automatic: [min, max]                                                                              | `undefined`                                              |
| linear          | Switch off automatic sRGB encoding and gamma correction                                                                                           | `false`                                                  |
| flat            | Use `THREE.NoToneMapping` instead of `THREE.ACESFilmicToneMapping`                                                                                | `false`                                                  |
| onCreated       | Callback after the canvas has rendered (but not yet committed)                                                                                    | `(state) => {}`                                          |
| onPointerMissed | Response for pointer clicks that have missed any target                                                                                           | `(event) => {}`                                          |

The canvas props should be used as a _constructor_. To update the canvas props, set the state like this:

```jsx
const set = useThree((state) => state.set)
set({ frameloop: 'demand' })
```

### Defaults that the canvas component sets up

Canvas will create a translucent `THREE.WebGLRenderer` with the following properties:

- antialias=true
- alpha=true
- powerPreference="high-performance"
- setClearAlpha(0)
- A `THREE.Perspective` camera
- A `THREE.Orthographic` cam if `orthographic` is true
- A `THREE.PCFSoftShadowMap` if `shadows` is true
- A `THREE.Scene` (into which all the JSX is rendered) and a `THREE.Raycaster`
- A [resize observer](https://github.com/react-spring/react-use-measure)

<Hint>

The colorspace will be set to sRGB (unless "linear" is true), all colors and textures will be
auto-converted. Consult [donmccurdy.com: Color Management in
three.js](https://www.donmccurdy.com/2020/06/17/color-management-in-threejs) for more information
about this. Unless "flat" is true it will set up `THREE.ACESFilmicToneMapping` for slightly more
contrast.

</Hint>

<Hint>

Consider Resize-Observer polyfills for older Safari browsers. We recommend
[juggle/resize-observer](https://github.com/juggle/resize-observer).

</Hint>

Commit message:

docs(R3F): add v8 API changes and cleanup render props

docs/react-three-fiber/API/canvas.mdx, after:

---
title: Canvas
description: 'The Canvas object is your portal into three.js.'
nav: 4
---

The `Canvas` object is where you start to define your React Three Fiber Scene.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { Canvas } from '@react-three/fiber'

const App = () => (
  <Canvas>
    <pointLight position={[10, 10, 10]} />
    <mesh>
      <sphereBufferGeometry />
      <meshStandardMaterial color="hotpink" />
    </mesh>
  </Canvas>
)
```

### Render Props

| Prop            | Description                                                                                                                                       | Default                                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| children        | three.js JSX elements or regular components                                                                                                       |                                                          |
| gl              | Props that go into the default renderer, or your own renderer. Also accepts a synchronous callback like `gl={canvas => new Renderer({ canvas })}` | `{}`                                                     |
| camera          | Props that go into the default camera, or your own `THREE.Camera`                                                                                 | `{ fov: 75, near: 0.1, far: 1000, position: [0, 0, 5] }` |
| shadows         | Props that go into `gl.shadowMap`, can also be set true for `PCFsoft`                                                                             | `false`                                                  |
| raycaster       | Props that go into the default raycaster                                                                                                          | `{}`                                                     |
| vr              | Switches renderer to VR mode, then uses `gl.setAnimationLoop`                                                                                     | `false`                                                  |
| mode            | React mode: legacy, blocking, concurrent                                                                                                          | `blocking`                                               |
| frameloop       | Render mode: always, demand, never                                                                                                                | `always`                                                 |
| resize          | Resize config, see react-use-measure's options                                                                                                    | `{ scroll: true, debounce: { scroll: 50, resize: 0 } }`  |
| orthographic    | Creates an orthographic camera                                                                                                                    | `false`                                                  |
| dpr             | Pixel-ratio, use `window.devicePixelRatio`, or automatic: [min, max]                                                                              | `undefined`                                              |
| linear          | Switch off automatic sRGB encoding and gamma correction                                                                                           | `false`                                                  |
| flat            | Use `THREE.NoToneMapping` instead of `THREE.ACESFilmicToneMapping`                                                                                | `false`                                                  |
| onCreated       | Callback after the canvas has rendered (but not yet committed)                                                                                    | `(state) => {}`                                          |
| onPointerMissed | Response for pointer clicks that have missed any target                                                                                           | `(event) => {}`                                          |

### Render defaults

Canvas uses the [render function](/react-three-fiber/API/render-function) which will create a translucent `THREE.WebGLRenderer` with the following constructor args:

- antialias=true
- alpha=true
- powerPreference="high-performance"

and with the following properties:

- outputEncoding = THREE.sRGBEncoding
- toneMapping = THREE.ACESFilmicToneMapping

It will also create the following scene internals:

- A `THREE.Perspective` camera
- A `THREE.Orthographic` cam if `orthographic` is true
- A `THREE.PCFSoftShadowMap` if `shadows` is true
- A `THREE.Scene` (into which all the JSX is rendered) and a `THREE.Raycaster`

<Hint>

The colorspace will be set to sRGB (unless "linear" is true), all colors and textures will be
auto-converted. Consult [donmccurdy.com: Color Management in
three.js](https://www.donmccurdy.com/2020/06/17/color-management-in-threejs) for more information
about this. Unless "flat" is true it will set up `THREE.ACESFilmicToneMapping` for slightly more
contrast.

</Hint>

<Hint>

Canvas creates a [resize observer](https://github.com/react-spring/react-use-measure) to update the canvas size.

Consider Resize-Observer polyfills for older Safari browsers. We recommend
[juggle/resize-observer](https://github.com/juggle/resize-observer).

</Hint>
