docs/getting-started/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: pmndrs/docs
description: Documentation generator for `pmndrs/*` projects.
nav: 0
---

![Gutenberg lithography](gutenberg.jpg)

## INSTALL

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/pmndrs/docs.git
$ cd docs
$ npm ci
```

## Configuration

| var                         | description                                                                                                                                                              | example                                                                                          |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `MDX`\*                     | Path to `*.mdx` folder<br/>NB: can be relative or absolute                                                                                                               | `docs` or `~/code/myproject/documentation`                                                       |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME`\*     | Library name                                                                                                                                                             | `React Three Fiber`                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT` | Library short name                                                                                                                                                       | `r3f`                                                                                            |
| `BASE_PATH`                 | Base path for the final URL                                                                                                                                              | `/react-three-fiber`                                                                             |
| `DIST_DIR`                  | Path to the output folder ([within project](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/distDir#:~:text=should%20not%20leave%20your%20project%20directory)) | `out` or `docs/out/react-three-fiber`                                                            |
| `OUTPUT`                    | Set to `export` for static output                                                                                                                                        | `export`                                                                                         |
| `HOME_REDIRECT`             | Where the home should redirect                                                                                                                                           | `/getting-started/introduction`                                                                  |
| `MDX_BASEURL`               | Base URL for inlining relative images                                                                                                                                    | `http://localhost:60141`or `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber/raw/master/docs`         |
| `EDIT_BASEURL`              | Base URL for displaying "Edit this page" URLs                                                                                                                            | `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber/edit/master/docs`                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_URL`           | Final URL of the published website                                                                                                                                       | `https://pmndrs.github.io/react-three-fiber`                                                     |
| `ICON`                      | Emoji or image to use as (fav)icon (path local to `MDX`)                                                                                                                 | `🇨🇭` or `/icon.png` or `/favicon.ico`                                                            |
| `LOGO`                      | Logo src/path (either FQURL or local to `MDX` path)                                                                                                                      | `/logo.png` or `https://worldvectorlogo.com/r3f.png`                                             |
| `GITHUB`                    | Github URL                                                                                                                                                               | `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber`                                                    |
| `DISCORD`                   | Discord URL                                                                                                                                                              | `https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/740093168770613279`                             |
| `THEME_PRIMARY`             | Primary accent color                                                                                                                                                     | `#323e48`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_SCHEME`              | Theme scheme                                                                                                                                                             | `content` or `expressive` or `fidelity` or `monochrome` or `neutral` or `tonalSpot` or `vibrant` |
| `THEME_CONTRAST`            | Theme contrast -- value between -1 and 1                                                                                                                                 | `0` or `-1` or `1` or `-.6`                                                                      |
| `THEME_NOTE`                | "note" color                                                                                                                                                             | `#1f6feb`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_TIP`                 | "tip" color                                                                                                                                                              | `#238636`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_IMPORTANT`           | "important" color                                                                                                                                                        | `#8957e5`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_WARNING`             | "warning" color                                                                                                                                                          | `#d29922`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_CAUTION`             | "caution" color                                                                                                                                                          | `#da3633`                                                                                        |

\* Required

<details>
  <summary>`MDX_BASEURL`</summary>

Given a `advanced/introduction.mdx` file in the `MDX` folder:

```md
![](dog.png)
```

becomes (for a `MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:60141` value):

```md
![](http://localhost:60141/advanced/dog.png)
```

`http://localhost:60141` being the `MDX` folder served.

> [!TIP]
> When deployed on GitHub Pages, `MDX_BASEURL` will typically value something like `https://github.com/pmndrs/uikit/raw/main/docs`, thanks to [`build.yml`](.github/workflows/build.yml) rule.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>`THEME_*`</summary>

We implement [m3 design system](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/system/overview), using [Tailwind Material Colors](https://tailwind-material-colors-docs.vercel.app).

[![color scheme](color-scheme.png)](https://tailwind-material-colors-docs.vercel.app#palette)

> [!NOTE]
> - [Material Color](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsoLz-E4Os4WWkrvRuQ7BJuVF-WfOyfWT) for more information
> - We currently don't have secondary/tertiary colors (maybe some day).

</details>

## dev

```sh
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="Poimandres"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="pmndrs"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export DIST_DIR=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL="vscode://file/$MDX"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=
  export LOGO=gutenberg.jpg
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/docs
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/1264328004172255393
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npm run dev &

  wait
)
```

Then go to: http://localhost:3000

> [!TIP]
> If `HOME_REDIRECT=` empty, `/` will not redirect, and instead displays an index of libraries.

## build

```sh
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  rm -rf out

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="Poimandres"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="pmndrs"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export DIST_DIR=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=/getting-started/introduction
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL=
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=
  export LOGO=gutenberg.jpg
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/docs
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/1264328004172255393
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  npm run build

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npx serve out &

  wait
)
```

http://localhost:3000

## Docker

```sh
$ docker build -t pmndrs-docs .
```

```sh
$ cd ~/code/pmndrs/react-three-fiber
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="React Three Fiber"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="r3f"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=/getting-started/introduction
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL=
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=🇨🇭
  export LOGO=/logo.png
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/740093168770613279
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  rm -rf "$MDX/out"

  docker run --rm --init -it \
    -v "./$MDX":/app/docs \
    -e MDX \
    -e NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME \
    -e BASE_PATH \
    -e DIST_DIR="$MDX/out$BASE_PATH" \
    -e OUTPUT \
    -e HOME_REDIRECT \
    -e MDX_BASEURL \
    -e EDIT_BASEURL \
    -e NEXT_PUBLIC_URL \
    -e ICON \
    -e LOGO \
    -e GITHUB \
    -e DISCORD \
    -e THEME_PRIMARY \
    -e THEME_SCHEME \
    -e THEME_CONTRAST \
    -e THEME_NOTE \
    -e THEME_TIP \
    -e THEME_IMPORTANT \
    -e THEME_WARNING \
    -e THEME_CAUTION \
    pmndrs-docs npm run build

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npx -y serve "$MDX/out" &

  wait
)
```

Then go to: http://localhost:3000

Commit message:

fix: projects using pmndrs/docs

docs/getting-started/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: pmndrs/docs
description: Documentation generator for `pmndrs/*` projects.
nav: 0
---

![Gutenberg lithography](gutenberg.jpg)

[Those projects](https://github.com/search?q=%22uses%3A+pmndrs%2Fdocs%2F.github%2Fworkflows%2Fbuild.yml%22+language%3AYAML&type=code&l=YAML) are known to be using this generator.

## INSTALL

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/pmndrs/docs.git
$ cd docs
$ npm ci
```

## Configuration

| var                         | description                                                                                                                                                              | example                                                                                          |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `MDX`\*                     | Path to `*.mdx` folder<br/>NB: can be relative or absolute                                                                                                               | `docs` or `~/code/myproject/documentation`                                                       |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME`\*     | Library name                                                                                                                                                             | `React Three Fiber`                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT` | Library short name                                                                                                                                                       | `r3f`                                                                                            |
| `BASE_PATH`                 | Base path for the final URL                                                                                                                                              | `/react-three-fiber`                                                                             |
| `DIST_DIR`                  | Path to the output folder ([within project](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/distDir#:~:text=should%20not%20leave%20your%20project%20directory)) | `out` or `docs/out/react-three-fiber`                                                            |
| `OUTPUT`                    | Set to `export` for static output                                                                                                                                        | `export`                                                                                         |
| `HOME_REDIRECT`             | Where the home should redirect                                                                                                                                           | `/getting-started/introduction`                                                                  |
| `MDX_BASEURL`               | Base URL for inlining relative images                                                                                                                                    | `http://localhost:60141`or `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber/raw/master/docs`         |
| `EDIT_BASEURL`              | Base URL for displaying "Edit this page" URLs                                                                                                                            | `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber/edit/master/docs`                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_URL`           | Final URL of the published website                                                                                                                                       | `https://pmndrs.github.io/react-three-fiber`                                                     |
| `ICON`                      | Emoji or image to use as (fav)icon (path local to `MDX`)                                                                                                                 | `🇨🇭` or `/icon.png` or `/favicon.ico`                                                            |
| `LOGO`                      | Logo src/path (either FQURL or local to `MDX` path)                                                                                                                      | `/logo.png` or `https://worldvectorlogo.com/r3f.png`                                             |
| `GITHUB`                    | Github URL                                                                                                                                                               | `https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber`                                                    |
| `DISCORD`                   | Discord URL                                                                                                                                                              | `https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/740093168770613279`                             |
| `THEME_PRIMARY`             | Primary accent color                                                                                                                                                     | `#323e48`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_SCHEME`              | Theme scheme                                                                                                                                                             | `content` or `expressive` or `fidelity` or `monochrome` or `neutral` or `tonalSpot` or `vibrant` |
| `THEME_CONTRAST`            | Theme contrast -- value between -1 and 1                                                                                                                                 | `0` or `-1` or `1` or `-.6`                                                                      |
| `THEME_NOTE`                | "note" color                                                                                                                                                             | `#1f6feb`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_TIP`                 | "tip" color                                                                                                                                                              | `#238636`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_IMPORTANT`           | "important" color                                                                                                                                                        | `#8957e5`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_WARNING`             | "warning" color                                                                                                                                                          | `#d29922`                                                                                        |
| `THEME_CAUTION`             | "caution" color                                                                                                                                                          | `#da3633`                                                                                        |

\* Required

<details>
  <summary>`MDX_BASEURL`</summary>

Given a `advanced/introduction.mdx` file in the `MDX` folder:

```md
![](dog.png)
```

becomes (for a `MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:60141` value):

```md
![](http://localhost:60141/advanced/dog.png)
```

`http://localhost:60141` being the `MDX` folder served.

> [!TIP]
> When deployed on GitHub Pages, `MDX_BASEURL` will typically value something like `https://github.com/pmndrs/uikit/raw/main/docs`, thanks to [`build.yml`](.github/workflows/build.yml) rule.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>`THEME_*`</summary>

We implement [m3 design system](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/system/overview), using [Tailwind Material Colors](https://tailwind-material-colors-docs.vercel.app).

[![color scheme](color-scheme.png)](https://tailwind-material-colors-docs.vercel.app#palette)

> [!NOTE]
> - [Material Color](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsoLz-E4Os4WWkrvRuQ7BJuVF-WfOyfWT) for more information
> - We currently don't have secondary/tertiary colors (maybe some day).

</details>

## dev

```sh
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="Poimandres"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="pmndrs"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export DIST_DIR=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL="vscode://file/$MDX"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=
  export LOGO=gutenberg.jpg
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/docs
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/1264328004172255393
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npm run dev &

  wait
)
```

Then go to: http://localhost:3000

> [!TIP]
> If `HOME_REDIRECT=` empty, `/` will not redirect, and instead displays an index of libraries.

## build

```sh
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  rm -rf out

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="Poimandres"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="pmndrs"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export DIST_DIR=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=/getting-started/introduction
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL=
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=
  export LOGO=gutenberg.jpg
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/docs
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/1264328004172255393
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  npm run build

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npx serve out &

  wait
)
```

http://localhost:3000

## Docker

```sh
$ docker build -t pmndrs-docs .
```

```sh
$ cd ~/code/pmndrs/react-three-fiber
$ (
  trap 'kill -9 0' SIGINT

  export _PORT=60141

  export MDX=docs
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME="React Three Fiber"
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME_SHORT="r3f"
  export BASE_PATH=
  export OUTPUT=export
  export HOME_REDIRECT=/getting-started/introduction
  export MDX_BASEURL=http://localhost:$_PORT
  export EDIT_BASEURL=
  export NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=
  export ICON=🇨🇭
  export LOGO=/logo.png
  export GITHUB=https://github.com/pmndrs/react-three-fiber
  export DISCORD=https://discord.com/channels/740090768164651008/740093168770613279
  export THEME_PRIMARY="#323e48"
  export THEME_SCHEME="tonalSpot"
  export THEME_CONTRAST="0"
  export THEME_NOTE="#1f6feb"
  export THEME_TIP="#238636"
  export THEME_IMPORTANT="#8957e5"
  export THEME_WARNING="#d29922"
  export THEME_CAUTION="#da3633"

  rm -rf "$MDX/out"

  docker run --rm --init -it \
    -v "./$MDX":/app/docs \
    -e MDX \
    -e NEXT_PUBLIC_LIBNAME \
    -e BASE_PATH \
    -e DIST_DIR="$MDX/out$BASE_PATH" \
    -e OUTPUT \
    -e HOME_REDIRECT \
    -e MDX_BASEURL \
    -e EDIT_BASEURL \
    -e NEXT_PUBLIC_URL \
    -e ICON \
    -e LOGO \
    -e GITHUB \
    -e DISCORD \
    -e THEME_PRIMARY \
    -e THEME_SCHEME \
    -e THEME_CONTRAST \
    -e THEME_NOTE \
    -e THEME_TIP \
    -e THEME_IMPORTANT \
    -e THEME_WARNING \
    -e THEME_CAUTION \
    pmndrs-docs npm run build

  kill $(lsof -ti:"$_PORT")
  npx serve $MDX -p $_PORT --no-port-switching --no-clipboard &
  npx -y serve "$MDX/out" &

  wait
)
```

Then go to: http://localhost:3000
